---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/projects/essays/ll-ms-a-is/my-opinions-on-generative-ai/"}
---

Nowadays, I have a dislike towards the people who use generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools. It ruins creativity. They use it to help their school assignments by copy-paste answers from it, and make art, videos, and anything what AI can do that feels "low effort" or something like that then post it to social media. In general, they are meant for helping out with stuff like brainstorming ideas, or experimenting/having fun with them (e.g. Role-playing, generate cool pictures, etc.).

  

I can still remember when nobody in my school heard of ChatGPT when it was introduced in late 2022, and used search engines like Google to search answers from multiple sources until a year later. Copying answers from Gen AI models like ChatGPT, Google Gemini, Meta AI, and Claude feels unfair to me when it comes to writing essays and other academic stuff, as it's like you're asking your mom or dad to do your homework instead of you. You're supposed to do it on your own. Also, AI models output misinformation and bias sometimes, and decreases critical thinking skills if people rely on it in academic contexts as according to University of British Columbia about social criticisms of using AI. Which is why students, teachers, and researchers should collect information from internet sources, and avoid using generative AIs for answers.

  

Also, AI models are usually bad at math and can be slow to correct them, according to some experts. I remember trying to input some of the math questions with Google Gemini that I can't solve back then during Grade 9 and 10, and it got the answers wrong. Melissa Heikkila of the MIT Technology Review said, "Math is really, really hard for AI models". "Complex math, such as geometry, requires sophisticated reasoning skills, and many AI researchers believe that the ability to crack it could herald more powerful and intelligent systems." Today, there are new models for generative AI to improve at solving math questions. But you still shouldn't use AI for that, and instead I recommend speaking to your math teacher or mathematician or watch math tutorials on YouTube if you need help how to solve them.

  

Now, the worst situation is that people can use generative AIs as a threat to society. One of those threats is replacing the human labor. There are cases recently where companies laid off all of their customer service agents to be replaced with AI chatbots because the CEOs think that AIs provided a better customer service. However, human agents are much more helpful than an AI chatbot. There are also cases where companies began to make AI videos that involve few seconds of AI-generated clips instead of hiring an actual, human artist to do it. One notable example is the recent Coca-Cola AI commercial video by The Coca-Cola Company, which has been heavily criticized by casual viewers and artists.

  

Another threat is social manipulation through AI-generated medias. One notable case is where people would post all sorts of fictional pictures to social media that were generated by image AI models like DALL-E, Midjourney, and others to fool some onlookers thinking they were real. The examples of these types of images can be found on fact-checking website Snopes. They even have a post on how to detect AI-generated pics.

  

So, that all being said, generative AIs should be used ethically for creating and visualizing ideas or playing with them. But people unfortunately took to the wrong direction.