---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/resources-data/knowledge/economics/applied-economics/principles-tools-and-techniques/applying-principles-tools-and-techniques-in-creating-a-business/"}
---

1. The owner of ***XYZ Mercantile*** is having a bad time in the market during this pandemic, since there are only a few people coming in the store lately. He suspected that some factors might be because of the ==rise of the buying power of the consumers== which enable them to bargain more to the sellers. In which some of his competitors might have offered discounts to their customers to gain ==more sales==.
	**Answer**: The best analysis to use in this situation is the ***TOWS*** and ***Poter's Five Forces***. *TOWS analysis* can be very helpful to use, especially when we are talking about a business that is already standing and which needs to evaluate its current status in the market by identifying the ==current threats and opportunities== the company might have to avoid weaknesses. *Poter's Five Forces* is also important since it will identify the ==bargaining power of buyer and the supplier== which is a big factor in the market and especially the threat of substitutes as well.
2. ***Maria*** is planning to open a **food-stop shop** near the bus stop. Since their house is near the bus stop, she thought that it will be an advantage to open the shop since there are no rentals to pay since the shop she is planning is just an extension of the front of their house. But, she is a bit reluctant to this idea since there are already few shops in the locality which would make them as her competitors.
	**Answer**: The best analysis to use in this situation is the ***SWOT*** & *TOWS analysis*. Considering the situation of *Maria*, *SWOT analysis* is best suited since we can lay down all the strength and opportunities of her business idea and identify all the weaknesses and threats she might come across when she will start to operate. *TOWS analysis* might be very helpful in her situations since in the statement a few strengths are already mentioned and few threats as well. All he need is to apply the *TOWS analysis* in order for her to ==maximize all her strength== and to ==capitalize all of her opportunities== since her location is favorable. And to consider all of her internal strength which will help avoid the external threats.
3. ***Ivan*** is an IT graduate, who lately resigned from his work to open a **computer shop** which would cater **computer servicing** and selling of **computer equipments**, **accessories**, and **computer set** as well. He planned this idea since he was still a student in which his mission is to cater the computer needs within their locality since there are no one yet to open a **computer shop** in their rural area. He thought one of the problems that might arise from his plan is that **computer equipments** and **computer set** are a bit pricey and technologically the people in the locality is not yet well exposed to these technologies. Likewise, he wanted to make sure that this idea of his is profitable enough.
	**Answer**: The best analysis to use in this situation is the ***VMOST***, ***PESTLE***, and *SWOT analysis*. *VMOST analysis* will become very important in this situation since *Ivan* needs to lay down his mission and vision first to align it to his main objectives. If his mission is to cater the computer needs within their locality, he needs to make it where people can afford ==financially==. And to identify that, we also need the *PESTLE analysis* since this enables us to identify the ==current economic status of the area== if the people within their area can afford to buy his products. *SWOT analysis* might be useful also in this situation, since it is important for us to identify the ==current strength and weaknesses== and the future opportunities it might have and its weaknesses that might be avoided.

** **
There are many definitions, tools, and techniques that could be addressed in the application for creating a business. The ones mentioned here are only the tip of the iceberg for strategy analysis and become a foundational part of the strategy analysis toolkit. In short, there is no way to mention them all. But, you could create a tool checklist that you could use in your next planning and analysis engagement to help you and your team define the present, future, risk, and change state that you need to succeed (***Lannnon***, ***R.*** *n.d.*).