---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/resources-data/knowledge/physical-education/dance/injuries/"}
---

## Most common injuries

- **Sprain** - tear of ligament fibers, muscles or tendons supporting a joint. This can occur when a joint is ==extended beyond its normal range of movement==. A **sprain** may involve some fibers through to a complete rupture. In extreme circumstances, the fibers of the ligament, muscle or tendon may remain intact and rip from the bone.
- **Contusion** or **bruise** - bleeding into the soft tissue. It is caused by a ==direct blow== from another person, an implement or an object.
- **Concussion** - caused by a ==direct blow to the head==. Depending on the severity of the concussion, injury can cause varying levels of implement of brain function. **Concussions** are categorized depending upon symptoms:

|**Category**|**Grade Level**|
|---|---|
|**Mild**|1|
|**Moderate**|2|
|**Severe**|3|

- **Dislocation** - occurs when the ball of a joint is ==forced out of its socket== (i.e. arm forced out of the shoulder joint). A **dislocation** must be reset by proper medical professional.
- **Fracture** - break, crack, or shattering of a bone. In **closed fractures**, the broken does ==not pierce the skin==, while in **open fractures**, the broken bone ==breaks the skin surface==.
- **Strains** - injuries that involve the stretching, partial tearing, or complete tearing of a tendon. **Strains** are categorized as _first_, _second_, or _third degree_. **Chronic strains** are injuries that ==gradually build up from overuse or repetitive stress==.

## Kinds of injuries

- **Acute injuries** - occur suddenly when or exercising. **Sprained ankles**, **strained backs**, and **fractured hands** are acute injuries. Signs of an acute injury include:
    - **Sudden, severe pain**
    - **Swelling**
    - **Not being able to place weight on a leg, knee, ankle, or foot**
    - **An arm, elbow, wrist, hand, or finger that is very tender**
    - **Not being able to move a joint as normal**
    - **Extreme leg or arm weakness**
    - **A bone or joint that is visibly out of place**
- **Chronic injuries** - happen after you dance a sport or exercise for a long time. Signs of a **chronic injury** include:
    - **Pain when you exercise or dance**
    - **A dull ache when you rest**
    - **Swelling**

## Common injury factors

1. **Poor body alignment and technique** - the anatomical alignment and technique of the dancer are some of the ==intrinsic factors== that are commonly associated with injury. **Dance** requires moving the limbs in a ==controlled and precise manner==. These movements are ==anchored to the trunk==, which means that the **trunk** should be ==stable== and the **spine** is ==aligned== and low trunk stability can lead to ==uncoordinated movements==, which predispose an individual to injury.
2. **Excessive training duration and intensity** - excessive training and limited recovery impairs the ability to ==heal and repair damaged issues==. Intense technique training will most likely lead to ==microscopic injury== to the musculoskeletal structures due to ==repetitive loading==. Without proper rest and sufficient nutrition, the body is not able to rebuild the tissues, and this predisposes the dancer to a severe injury. An abrupt increase in training intensity will also lead to this scenario.
3. **Hard dance floor** - the floor is where dancers ==rehearse and perform==. An optimal dance floor should be able to absorb the impact that is generated by the performer. A hard floor does not help in dissipating the impact and returns the force to the dancer. The repetitive shock absorbed by the foot would eventually damage the foot or other parts of the lower extremity.
4. **Poor shoe design** - **footwear** corrects foot mechanics and ==reduce the impact== on the foot. A shoe that does not fit properly or has insufficient shock absorption will significantly contribute to injury risk. Furthermore, some materials used on the shoes do not offer sufficient traction on the floor and this could lead to slips and falls.
5. **Muscle imbalance** - an ==uncoordinated muscle action== because of uneven strength between muscle groups. This is attributed to various factors such as anatomy, technique, and past injury.

## Steps to prevent injury

- Develop a **fitness plan** that includes **cardiovascular exercise**, **strength training** and **flexibility**. This will help decrease your chance of injury.
- Alternate exercising different muscle groups and exercise every other day.
- Cool down properly after exercise or dance. It should take two times as long as you're warm up.
- Stay hydrated. Drink water to prevent **dehydration**, **heat exhaustion**, and **heat stroke**.
- Stretching exercises can improve the ability of muscles to ==contract and perform==, reducing the risk for injury. Each stretch should start slowly until you reach a point of muscle tension. **Stretching** should not be painful. Aim to hold each stretch for ==up to 20 seconds==.
- Use the right equipment or gear and wear shoes that provide support and that may correct certain foot problems that can lead to injury.
- Learn the right techniques to perform your dance.